# Go's approch for error

failure is just one of several expected behaviors.
error is reported as ordinary values, not exception as in other languages.
Go does have an exception mechanism of sorts, it is used only for reporting
truly unexpected errors that indicate a bug, not the routine errors that a
robust program should be built to expect.

Go demands that more attention be paid to error-handling logic.
If the failure has only one possible cause, the result is a boolean, usually
called `ok`.
More often, the failure have a variety of causes and need an explanation.
In such cases, the type of the additional result is `error`.

# Error-Handling Strategies

1. propagate the error

	because message are frequently chained together, message strings
	should not be capitalized and newlines should be avoided.

	In general, the call f(x) is responsible for reporting the attempted
	operation f and the argument value x as they relate to the context of
	the error. The caller is responsible for adding further information
	that it has but the call f(x) does not.

```go
doc, err := html.Parse(resp.Body)
resp.Body.Close()
if err != nil {
    return nil, fmt.Errorf("parsing %s as HTML: %v", url, err)
}
```

2. For errors that represent transient or unpredictable problems, it may make sense
   to retry the failed operation, possibly with a delay between tries

3. If progress is impossible, the caller can print the error and stop the program gracefully,
   but this aciton should generally be reserved for the main package of a program.

```go
// (In function main.)
if err := WaitForServer(url); err != nil {
    fmt.Fprintf(os.Stderr, "Site is down: %v\n", err)
    os.Exit(1)
}
```

use `log.Fatalf` is more convienient.
All `log` functions append a newline if one is not already present.

- by default, it prefixes the time and date to the error message.

```go
if err := WaitForServer(url); err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Site is down: %v\n", err) // "2006/01/02 15:04:05 Site is ..."
}
```

- you can also set the prefix to the name of the command

```go
log.SetPrefix("wait: ")
log.SetFlags(0)
```

4. In some cases, just log the error and then continue, perhaps with reduced functionality.

```go
// with added prefix "wait:"
if err := Ping(); err != nil {
    log.Printf("ping failed: %v; networking disabled", err)
}
```

```go
// or printing directly to the stderr
if err := Ping(); err != nil {
    log.Fprintf(os.Stderr, "ping failed: %v; networking disabled\n", err)
}
```

5. In rare cases we an safely ignore an error entirely.

```go
dir, err := ioutil.TempDir("", "scratch")
if err != nil {
    return fmt.Errorf("failed to create temp dir: %v", err)
}
// ...use temp dir...
os.RemoveAll(dir) // ignore errors: %TMPDIR is cleaned periodically
```

Get into the habit of considering errors after every function call, and when you
deliberately ignore one, document your intention clearly.